The Janus Engine
===================

The history of the Internet starts with French Revolution.

The overthrow of Louis XVI prompted the other European monarchies to engage in a policy of containment against the new French Republic.  The Revolutionary government responded with the policy of 'levy en masse', drafting all French males to be soldiers within the Revolutionary army.  Once able to field an unprecedented number of soldiers, the French Republic was able to defeat monarchist forces and even push outward into other nations to setup satellite republics.  This created a generation of warrior culture within France, a culture that would inevitably give rise to Napoleon.  He was trained in the pre-Revolution French officer tradition to use mathematics to conduct artillery fire and frequently used it to stunning effect.  When he came to power, he commanded these forces and conquered most of Europe.  Napoleon was eventually defeated at Waterloo, where the concept of indirect artillery fire was ironically utilized against French soldiers.  However, the passing of Napoleon was not easily undone.  The massive militarization of all civilians as fervent vanguards of equality became within the realm of military possibility for other European nations as well.  This caused an unbalancing of traditional powers which ultimately led to the Crimean War.

William George Armstrong observed that the heavy artillery deployed by the British in the Crimean War was unwieldy.  He merged the new techniques in rifle manufacturing to artillery production.  By adding breech loading, rifling, and modern metallurgy, he was able to dramatically increase the range of artillery.  The rapid firing capability and extended reach of this armament (The RBL 7 inch Armstrong Gun was capable of reaching well over a mile) created new artillery tactics.  It also created new mathematical problems; once shells could reach over the horizon, how could you verify the shell landed as intended?  Ninety years later, in 1946, the American government invented ENIAC, the first electronic general-purpose computer, to help solve that question.  It wasn't long until ENIAC was also used to calculate simulations of the hydrogen bomb.

Fifteen years years after ENIAC was unveiled, the RAND corporation released a study called  "*Reliable Digital Communications Using Unreliable Network Repeater Nodes*" to explore ways for American telecommunication networks to survive widespread nuclear bombardment.  This lead to the research and development of packet switching, which would evolve into a variety of networking methodologies that the TCP/IP protocol would eventually unify, thus, creating the foundation for the modern Internet.

The technologies that gave birth to the Internet were forged from the desire to increase the killing capacity of artillery and to survive massive nuclear bombardment.  It was created by war to survive war by ensuring the survivability of vital telecommunication assets.  As war-time production in the post-war period was retrained for modern global consumption, mankind used this infrastructure to communicate with one another.  For the first time in human history, we could discuss matters directly with each other, outside of the influence of cultural institutions, various estates of power, and the trappings of identity.  This grand exchange of ideas (between 1990 and 2001) revealed an uncomfortable truth: the Cold War binding of nuclear nationalism and moral supremacy were no longer the most effective means of human organization.  Not only could the Internet allow the creation of new identities capable of inspiring Napoleonic fervor, but the Internet could allow the perpetual creation and disposal of such identities, which if managed correctly, could be steered to generate perpetual fervor for any context and not just nationalistic ones.  Those who controlled the creation and destruction of those identities (the creators of mass narratives) stood to benefit tremendously.

In short, *the internet was designed to survive nuclear war.  It was never designed to survive psychological war*.

Today, we are living in an era in which the powers that be are experimenting with this idea.  Clickbait, outrage, shaming, and dehumanization have become profitable staples of modern media institutions within the West.  As a result, open source efforts have emerged to allow anonymous political participation to escape the social ramifications of supporting *“wrongthink”*: BitCoin, Tor, VPNs, Secret Circle, Wikileaks, darknets, meshnets, etc.  These technological reactions have been consistently disorganized and demonized (and in many cases, hijacked) by mainstream political supplicants.  Even basic encryption strategies that allow for safe and important banking transactions are being held as accomplices of *“wrongthink”*.  As the commercial potential of the Internet continues to unleash more productive configurations of human organization, it will become increasingly more difficult for an individual to counter both the authoritarian reactions from threatened oligarchs and the clever identity exploitations of the ambitious.  The powerful will seek to reveal the hidden at any cost, which will drive people to achieve greater anonymity to protect themselves from the powerful.

The unmentioned component of this inevitable development of sustainable and meaningful anonymous political participation has been profitability, a challenge only partially resolved by BitCoin.  For comparison of profit motive, the 2008 bailouts and low interest rates have allowed powerful corporations to enjoy an activist role within mass media institutions.  For example, [GE received a $139 billion bailout in 2008 and purchased NBC in 2009](http://www.cbsnews.com/news/ge-nbc-and-obama-conflicts-of-interest/) ([Archive](https://archive.is/XDL3h)).  Those who have access to large pools of liquidity, bailout remnants, and low interest rates are the only ones who can afford mainstream media airtime.  These entities then use mass media to disregard public opinion by perpetually reinforcing the merits of their political narratives.  Protections against the inevitable dehumanization such narratives rely on do not command anywhere near such volumes of financial support.

This disparity of profitability is a problem this project seeks to remedy.  With the Janus Engine, we can make anonymous content creation more profitable than all other existing content creators.  It's a bold claim, but bear with me.

Google SEO rules have acted as the Internet's federal legislation.  Ad exchanges act as the Internet's NYSE.  Content creators must conform to both Google's rules and ad exchange activity to maximize the impact of their content.  In essence, these two entities control the profit motives of nearly all Internet content.  As a result, content creators have tapped into the wisdom mentioned by Eric Hoffer's *[The True Believer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_True_Believer)*, a book from 1951 that analyzes the psychological foundations of identity fanaticism.

“*Successful mass movements need not believe in a god, but they must believe in a devil*.”  ~Eric Hoffer

By exploiting the fears of established and moneyed political identities, content creators can generate consistent revenue.  If an identity is unaligned with these other identities, then the techniques described in Samuel P. Huntington's *[Clash of Civilizations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fault_line_war)* can be utilized to make an unaligned identity a vassal to these influential identities, even if they have nothing in common whatsoever.  This has resulted in a news distribution system that caters exclusively to ideological walled gardens where only true believers are allowed.  This dramatically limits the profit potential of content creators.  This also means media empires have to purchase content creators in expensive acquisitions to increase profitability, a system that ultimately rewards pump-and-dump ideological exploitation mastered by the likes of Gawker and Upworthy.  This unfortunately forces competition to embrace their underhanded tactics.  And thus, we have today's news distribution system.

The Janus Engine exploits the psychology of content consumption.  For example, with the Janus Engine, we can have American Right Wing Conservatives consume American Left Wing Liberal content.... and vice versa.  This may sound impossible, but if this can be done at scale, then any content creator that utilize the Janus Engine will double their readership without having to engage in expensive acquisitions.  This will destroy the profit competitiveness of ideological walled gardens and their army of charlatans while building a foundation for meaningful anonymous political participation... all without having to involve heavy-handed authoritarian decrees.  Again, this sounds completely impossible, but we believe we have a way to pull it off.

The history of the Internet starts with a populist revolution in 1789 that comes to fruition through dictatorial military expansionism under a collectivized narrative of violent nationalism, but it doesn't have to end that way.  We don't have to subscribe to mainstream media narratives just because elite political puppeteers can afford the largest volume of creative and technical talent.  The Janus Engine can make anonymous political participation more profitable than ideological walled gardens.
